Abolish	when someone in authority puts an end to something
Advent	of something new, such as an invention, marks the beginning of its arrival or appearance to the world at large.
Adversary	a person who goes against you in some way, such as an opponent in a contest or a personal enemy in a conflict.
Adversity	to suffer from trouble, misfortune, and hardship.
Aesthetic	used to talk about art, beauty, the study of beauty, and the appreciation of beautiful things.
Anguish	to feel extreme pain or severe sorrow
Animated	she is energetic, lively, and filled with excited activity.
Aptitude	one's natural ability to perform a particular skill well, or potential at becoming more skilled at it
Arbitrary	it has been decided without any thought, principle, or system, and therefore can seem unfair.
Arid	dry and lacking in sufficient rainfall to support much life. or uninteresting
Artifact	a weapon, tool, or piece of art that is created by human beings which is historically and culturally interesting.
Belligerent	hostile, aggressive, very unfriendly, and prone to fight.
Bewilder	to be very confused or puzzled by something
Brevity	the quality of expressing something concisely
Calligraphy	the art of beautiful handwriting
Cavernous	a space that is both hollow and huge (immense in size)
Chronicle	a record of historical events kept in chronological order.
Chronological	a history that arranges events in the correct order in which they happened.
Communal	those goods or items which are shared in common by a community.
Concede	to unwillingly admit something is true or to give in to something
Concentric	circles, gradually increasing in size, radiate from a common central point.
Concise	short, clear, and gets right to the point.
Concurrent	to happen at the same time
Condole	to express sympathy or sorrow with someone, usually on the death of someone dear
Conglomerate	a large business or organization that consists of many different companies involved in numerous areas of expertise
Conjecture	a theory or guess that is based on information that is not certain or complete.
Conscientious	in performing a task, one does it in a thorough and careful fashion to make sure that it is completely done.
Consensus	general agreement about a given point.
Constrain	forced to do something, or are kept from doing it.
Contemplate	you either think about it deeply or gaze at it intently.
Contemporary	exists at the same time as something else, or exists at the current time.
Contrary	to oppose or go against an existing opinion or fashion
Convene	to either call people to gather together, or when the people come together for the meeting.
Conventional	the way of thinking that is most commonly accepted by social groups.
Convergent	two things meeting or coming together at a given point in space or time
Cordial	greeting that is warm, friendly, and polite.
Cornucopia	large quantity and variety of something good and nourishing
Credible	easy to believe or trust.
Cynical	person who thinks that people are motivated mostly by selfishness, and so not only doubts them, but also sarcastic and skeptical about them
Deficit	a person or government spends more than they take in in income or tax revenue.
Designation	name, label, or mark that something is given to identify it
Deviate	They act differently than other people and move away from the norms
Dilemma	difficult situation or problem that consists of a choice between two equally disagreeable or unfavorable alternatives
Discern	to notice, detect, or perceive something that is usually not obvious
Discrepancy	a difference or inconsistency between two sets of data, although they should be the same
Disentangle	untie it completely; from a problem, you get yourself out of it
Dismantle	to take something down into its parts or destroy something gradually by taking away parts
Dispel	cause it to go away or vanish or to scatter into different directions
Disposition	your personality or the way in which you tend to react to the various events in your life, or the mood that you generally have.
Dissension	a disagreement or conflict of opinion amongst a group of people.
Distortion	twisted out of shape in some way.
Dominion	it rules or controls it absolutely.
Dubious	there is a great deal of disbelief or doubt about it.
Egotistical	thinks about or is concerned with no one else other than himself.
Eloquent	to speak beautifully in an expressive and persuasive way
Embark	to begin a journey, such as boarding a plane or simply starting a new endeavor
Encompass	to include all aspects of something or completely surround something
Erratic	irregular, inconsistent, and not predictable.
Exemplify	to serve as an example of something else, illustrate, or demonstrate something else
Expansive	a wide scope or is extensive in area.
Facilitate	make it easier for all involved by giving your able assistance.
Fanaticism	the condition of being overly enthusiastic about a cause to the point of being extreme and unreasonable about it.
Fidelity	faithfulness or loyalty towards those things.
Fluctuate	vary or change often, rising or falling seemingly at random.
Formative	shapes or influences the growth of something else.
Formulate	you carefully plan or work an action out in great detail ahead of time.
Fortification	a structure or building that is used in defense against an invading army.
Fruitless	does not bring about a successful result, but rather has been time spent pointlessly.
Generic	description or attribute is not specific to any one thing but applies to all members of an entire class or group.
Genre	a category, type, or class of artistic work.
Gingerly	to be careful and cautious with it.
Gratification	experience satisfaction or pleasure about a job well done.
Homage	to show great admiration, respect or even worship towards someone
Impediment	something that blocks or obstructs progress
Impending	fast approaching, or is about to occur; this word usually has a negative force, such as something threatening coming.
Impenetrable	cannot be gotten through by any means;
Imperative	absolutely necessary or very important that something get done
Implicit	is understood or implied without having to come right out and say it.
Imposition	putting an extra burden or duty on someone that is unwelcome by that person.
Impoverished	person or nation is very poor and stricken by poverty. Can be applied to mean depleted soil
Improvise	to make something up on the spot since one has been surprised by an unexpected situation that has arisen
Impulsive	tending to act without thinking beforehand about something beforehand in a way that is not predictable
Incarcerate	to put someone into jail or prison
Incompatible	to not get along or be unable to cooperate with someone and so are in conflict with them
Inference	logical conclusion drawn from available data using reason
Ingenuity	using creativity, intelligence, and cleverness to do so.
Interim	is only temporary until the position can be filled by someone who is more qualified.
Jeopardy	to be in danger or trouble of some kind
Judicious	shows good judgment because she is wise and careful in making a decision.
Kinetic	moving, dynamic, and energetic
Laborious	job or process that takes a long time, a lot of effort, and is often boring.
Lavish	abundant and very generous, and can sometimes even border on being excessive
Longevity	can either be having a long life or the life span of a person or object.
Luminous	bright and glowing.
Luxuriant	growing well and very healthy
Malice	the strong desire to harm someone physically or emotionally because you hate him.
Malignant	does great harm or is lethal.
Mediocre	just average or adequate in quality.
Memorandum	a short note to help remember something one has to do or that one has done, or can also be a communication sent around an office complex.
Metropolitan	Large city
Moderation	do nothing to excess, but rather live in a balanced and measured way.
Monumental	very great, impressive, or of considerable historical significance.
Morale	current state of self-confidence, how she feels emotionally, and her state of determination to complete tasks in a motivated way.
Naive	too trusting, either because you don't have enough experience with life, or because you are childlike and simple.
Norm	the standard, model, or rule by which people conduct themselves.
Notorious	well-known by the public at large, being usually famous for doing something bad.
Novice	have just begun or started out doing it.
Nurture	feed and take care of him.
Obliterate	destroy it to such an extent that there is nothing or very little left of it.
Ominous	a sign that predicts that something bad will happen in the near future
Parable	a short story that usually is told to illustrate a moral or lesson of some kind
Patronize	you they talk or behave in a way that seems friendly, but nevertheless show that they think they are more intelligent or important than you.
Perilous	highly dangerous or extremely risky.
Piety	showing devotion or loyalty toward something
Placid	calm, quiet, and undisturbed, and generally tends to remain so.
Plight	in trouble of some kind, or in a state of unfortunate circumstances.
Posterity	all of one's future descendents or future generations
Potency	how powerful or effective it is.
Practical	can be accomplished, and so is worth doing.
Preamble	introduction or preliminary statement which usually precedes a formal document in order to explain its purpose
Predecessor	one who precedes someone else in a job, or is an ancestor.
Predicament	a difficult situation or unpleasant mess that is hard to get out of.
Predominant	the most important or most common thing
Procrastinate	to put something off to delay doing it, usually because it is something unpleasant
Protocol	the rules of conduct or etiquette that a given social situation demands
Proximity	nearness or closeness to something
Purge	to get rid of or eliminate it, especially if it is unclean in some way.
Ratification	its official approval or confirmation by all involved.
Rationale	your reason or explanation for why you did something
Ravage	to completely destroy, wreck, or damage something
Ravenous	extremely hungry.
Rectify	to correct something or make it right once more.
Referendum	a proposed measure or other concern that is brought before the people for a vote
Refrain	to not do something even though you want to
Refurbish	to repair something in order to improve its appearance or function
Regime	the system of government currently in power in a given area, or a given controlling group or management of an organization.
Remnant	are the small remaining parts of it after the main part has been used or destroyed.
Retaliate	to get back at someone for something that they did to you
Reversion	turning back again to a previous state or condition
Sanction	an official authorization or approval to do something, such as a showing of support or acceptance. also is an official measure taken by one country to punish another because it is doing something socially unacceptable.
Satire	a way of criticizing people or ideas in a humorous way through the use of exaggeration, and is often used to make people see their faults.
Sedentary	habit, job, or lifestyle spends a lot of time sitting down without moving or exercising often.
Senile	an aged person who is less mentally aware as in the past, and hence tends to be confused and forgetful at times.
Serene	peaceful and calm (without a care)
Skeptic	a person who doubts popular claims or facts about things that other people believe to be true.
Sovereign	rules itself because it is its own supreme or superior power.
Stature	your standing, that is, how society views your level of importance relative to your position in life or your character; your physical height, or the height of an animal in an upright position.
Statutory	created and controlled by rules and laws and hence is legally punishable if violated.
Stupendous	an event or accomplishment that is amazing, astonishing or simply spectacular
Subdue	to defeat or bring an enemy under control
Subtle	clever or so fine or slight that it is not obvious, and can be deep or highly sophisticated.
Subversive	an act undertaken to overthrow or do significant harm to a government or other institution
Superlative	excellent, outstanding, or simply the best
Surge	swells, rapidly increases, or suddenly rises.
Temperance	to act with self-restraint and so don't do things in excess, and also stay away from drinking alcohol.
Tenacious	you do not quit until you have finished what you have started.
Terrestrial	refers to living or growing on the land as opposed to the sea, and can refer to the planet Earth as a whole in comparison with the other planets.
Torrential	a rain downpour that is sometimes even severe or intense in power
Traverse	you go across or travel through it.
Trivial	insignificant, commonplace, of little value, or not important
Unanimous	a decision about something in which all people agree or are united in their opinion
Unprecedented	something that has never happened before, which makes it extraordinary, original, or new
Unquenchable	desire or thirst cannot be satisfied or gotten rid of.
Unrestrained	free to do as she pleases, not being controlled by anyone but herself, which can lead to excessive behavior.
Unsightly	presents an ugly, unattractive, or disagreeable face to the world.
Unsurpassed	you are the best, period.
Vengeful	to want to get back at someone for something they did to you and unwilling to forgive them
Versatile	skillful at many different things and so is highly adaptable or flexible at what she can do.
Vibrant	lively and full of energy in a way that is exciting and attractive
Vile	evil, disgusting, offensive, wretched, or very unpleasant.
Vintage	first-rate, often of a past time, of excellent quality, or is a classic representative of its kind.
