Acrostic	A poem or piece of descriptive writing where usually the first letters of each sentence in the writing, taken together, form a word that the lines describe.
Advertorial	A long advertisement which usually appears in a newspaper or magazine that has the form and feel of a normal article or editorial but which is actually trying to sell something or push a point of view
Affray	A noisy and aggressive disagreement or fight in public
Agog	If you are agog about something that has occurred, you are very excited about or highly interested in it
Ague	When you suffer from ague, you suffer from fever and its associated symptoms, such as sweating, chills, and hot stages
Akimbo	When someone stands with arms akimbo, her hands are on her hips, and her elbows are bent outwards
Amanuensis	A secretary who copies out information that is dictated to him
Ambit	The boundary that describes the limit of a given area
Androgynous	Someone or something which is androgynous has traits or characteristics that could be feminine or masculine so that gender is not distinguishable
Animadversion	the act of strongly criticizing another person for something he has done
Aphasia	The sudden inability to speak or understand written language due to injury or disease of the brain
Apologia	A formal defense or justification of a belief, idea, or conduct
Apoplexy	A sudden loss of consciousness or normal bodily function as a result of a ruptured or blocked blood vessel. It is also defined as being extremely angry, so enraged, in fact, that the strong feeling could cause a stroke or ruptured blood vessel.
Apparatchik	A very loyal subordinate to someone or something, especially to a particular political organization or leader
Arrant	This word is used to emphasize someone's conduct as being thoroughly or completely worthy of disapproval
Arriviste	Someone who has recently become socially powerful, usually by dubious means, and is thus regarded as an upstart
Askance	When you look askance or sideways at someone, you are indicating that you are suspicious or doubtful about something she did or said
Astern	If something is astern of a ship or aircraft, it is behind it
Athwart	If you are athwart something, you are against or opposed to it. The preposition athwart can also mean across something.
Autochthonous	That which is autochthonous to an area is native or indigenous to it.
Autodidact	A person who teaches herself instead of having a teacher or tutor do so
Avatar	An image in the virtual world that represents a person in the real world. Or a hindu god that descends to earth in human form.
Balderdash	Absolute nonsense or pointlessness
Bauble	A decorative but cheap trinket or insignificant object that has little value
Bespoke	Something which bespeaks something else indicates it or gives a sign of it. That which bespeaks something else can also foretell or foreshadow it
Betoken	If something betokens something else it shows that it either exists now or will exist
Blazon	When something is blazoned it is prominently displayed for all to see, or proclaimed for all to hear
Brouhaha	A commotion or uproar of some kind, such as a brawl or public protest
Bulwark	A protection, support, or safeguard that is provided by someone or something
Chiaroscuro	The use of light and shade or employing strong contrasts between light and dark in order to enhance three dimensions on a painting or ti produce a stunning effect
cognoscenti	The cognoscenti of a society are these people who are experts or who have a superior range of knowledge in a subject, primarily the fine arts
Colophon	The colophon of a book is its production and publication notes, which include date printed, name of the publisher, etc. A colophon can also be a publishing house's emblem or symbol
contretemps	A mishap or inopportune happening that disrupts the flow of what is going on.
Copacetic	When something is copacetic, it is completely fine, in order, or OK.
Cudgel	A short, thick stick used for beating
Deracinate	When someone is DERACINATED, he is uprooted or removed from his natural environment. When something is DERACINATED, it is eradicated, uprooted, or destroyed.
Descry	When you descry something you detect, discover, discern, or see it
Disport	to entertain or divert yourself in order to amuse yourself
Dissimulate	When people dissimulate they hide, conceal, or disguise their true intentions or feelings
Doggerel	DOGGEREL is poetry or comic verse that has little literary value and is not really meant to be taken seriously
Doyenne	A highly respected female member of a group, profession, or class who is the highest in rank, experience, or age
Dragoon	When you dragoon someone into doing something, you force or compel him to do it
Dystopia	An imaginary place that is the worst possible
Egalite	Egalite is both social and political equality
Embouchure	The word EMBOUCHURE refers to how the lips and tongue are placed on a wind instrument, or to the mouthpiece of a wind instrument. An EMBOUCHURE can also be the opening/mouth of a river.
Emeritus	This adjective refers to someone who is retired but who retains his professional title, as in a professor
Empyrean	The empyrean is another word for the sky or for the heavens
Epicene	The adjective EPICENE refers to something that has both feminine and masculine traits. The word EPICENE can also refer to a man who is effeminate or to something which is weak or lacking in vigor
Epigraph	A quotation or inspiring line heading a chapter or entire book which sets forth a theme or is related to the book or chapter in some way. Can also be an inscription on a building, monument, or statue.
Epistemology	The philosophical study of knowledge, including its limits, source, and nature
Epistolary	This word refers to a written letter to someone
Equable	That which is equable is unvarying, steady, calm, and uniform
Eschatology	The study of what happens after you die, or religious concerning death and its aftermath
Finagle	When you finagle someone you trick or deceive him to get something from him by dishonest methods
Forbear	
Frippery	Showiness or pretentiousness, either in dress, behavior, or a display of some kind. The word frippery can also mean something insignificant or nonessential
Genotype	An individual's genotype is her genetic makeup that determines the physical traits that she as a particular individual possesses.
A genotype can also refer to a particular class of organisms with the same genetic makeup.
Glitz	High showiness or extreme flashiness that is meant to impress and wow, being a kind of glamour that is often associated with show business, celebrities, and sophisticated night life.
Guerdon	A reward or recompense received for something you have achieved
Hagiography	Hagiography is both the study of and/or writing of the lives of saints, that is, both writing a biography of a saint, or the subsequent study of its contents
Haptic	The adjective haptic refers to the sense of touch
Harridan	A mean old woman
Hector	When people hector others, they bully, intimidate, or harass them.
Hoary	That which is hoary is very old or ancient, may have hair which has turned white or gray, and may be worthy of veneration. The adjective hoary can also refer to something which is overused or stale.
Hoyden	A girl who would rather hang out with boys since she's very athletic, rough, highly active, and a spitfire.
Note: this is an outdated term
Immolate	To sacrifice something or someone, or to kill as a sacrifice, usually by burning. This very can also simply mean to kill, again usually by fire.
Immure	To confine or enclose within walls, or to imprison
Improvidence	Someone who is improvident does not think about providing for future events and needs, lacks foresight, and is not cautious or sensible
indubitable	A conclusion or statement which is indubitable is believable, unquestionable, or true beyond the shadow of a doubt.
Indubitable	A conclusion/statement which is INDUBITABLE is believable, unquestionable, or true beyond the shadow of a doubt
insuperable	That which is insuperable, such as a barrier or challenge, is not able to be overcome, surpassed, or dealt with.
Insuperable	That which is insuperable, such as a barrier or challenge, is not able to be overcome, surpassed, or dealt with.
Jocose	Someone who is jocose is given to joking around, or being playful, merry, and humorous
jocose	Someone who is jocose is given to joking around, or being playful, merry, and humorous.
junta	A junta is a small group of people in control of a government after a hostile takeover.
Junta	A small group of people in control of a government after a hostile takeover
Kibosh	When you put the kibosh on something, you end, stop, or cancel it
kibosh	When you put the kibosh on something, you end, stop, or cancel it.
Kismet	Your kismet is your fate, future, destiny, or fortune
kismet	Your kismet is your fate, future, destiny, or fortune.
Knavish	A fellow who is knavish is dishonest, tricky, or untrustworthy
lamguorous	When someone is languorous she is very relaxed, sluggish, and lacking in energy.
Languorous	When someone is languorous she is very relaxed, sluggish, and lacking in energy
leitmotif	A leitmotif is a theme that recurs throughout a novel, history, or a piece of music.
Leitmotif	A theme that recurs throughout a novel, history, or a place of music
Masticate	To chew or grind food thoroughly
masticate	To masticate is to chew or grind food thoroughly.
Mien	One's mien is one's general conduct or behavior in terms of posture, appearance, expression, and overall attitude towards life
mien	One's mien is one's general conduct or behavior in terms of posture, appearance, expression, and overall attitude towards life.
Morass	A MORASS is a sticky, confusing, and overwhelming situation which impedes progress and is difficult to extract oneself from. A MORASS is also an area of soft, low ground, like a swamp or marsh
Natter	When someone natters he is chattering or talking a great deal, usually about insignificant things
natter	When someone natters he is chattering or talking a great deal, usually about insignificant things.
Nugatory	Something which is nugatory is worthless, trivial, or insignificant
nugatory	Something which is nugatory is worthless, trivial, or insignificant.
Occultation	The process of concealing or hiding something, its disappearance from view, or a resulting hidden state
Oeuvre	The complete works of a single artist but can also be a single work of a painter, writer, sculptor, musician, etc.
Oligarchy	A government that is run by a small group of highly influential and powerful people
Oligopoly	A market condition in which there are only a limited number of suppliers of a particular product
Ontology	The branch of philosophy that discusses such concepts as the very nature of reality, being, essence, and the ultimate thing which gives rise to existence
Orotund	An orotund voice is full, strong, and imposing, and can tend towards being pompous or overly showy
Palaver	A lot of chatter or idle talk that wastes a good deal of time
Palimpsest	A handwritten text, usually on parchment or sometimes papyrus, that has been written over the top of another older, partially erased text
Parvenu	Someone who has recently become wealthy or more powerful in some way, but has yet to be accepted due to unfamiliarity with her new social station
Patisserie	A bakery which specializes in French pasteries
Peckish	If you're feeling peckish you are feeling irritable or quick to snap at people. The adjective can also mean feeling somewhat hungry.
Phalanx	A group or force of people who are united in a common purpose. Was originally a Greek term for Greek Infantry when those foot soldiers formed into ranks
Phantasmagoria	A shifting scene of fantastic and nonexistent imagery often associated with a dream, fever, or neurological disorder
Physiognomy	A person's physiognomy is her face or features. Physiognomy can also be the skill or art of determining personality and character by looking at a person's facial features
picaresque	The adjective picaresque refers to the adventures of clever rogues or to such scoundrels in general
Pidgin	A PIDGIN is a common language developed by speakers of two different languages in an attempt to understand each other
Pilfer	When you pilfer, you steal something small, or take without paying in small quantities
Plebiscite	A direct vote by an electorate of a state or entire nation to determine whether to accept or refuse a proposed measure or important public question
Plenitude	When there is a plenitude of something, there is an abundance, ample supply, or significant quantity of it
Polyphonic	This word refers to something which consists of many sounds or voices
Prefigure	When something prefigures a future occurrence, it foreshadows, hints at, or suggests that it may very well happen
Prehensile	A prehensile tail on an animal is able to grasp or hold onto things by wrapping around them. The word prehensile can also refer to someone's excellent memory or keen intellect, which allows her to hold onto information and grasp concepts
Preternatural	That which is preternatural is beyond what is usually considered to be normal, and so is exceptional, extraordinary, unusual, or abnormal in some way. Something which is considered preternatural can also have a supernatural nature
Prig	A PRIG is someone who thinks that what she does is absolutely morally correct, and tries to shove those opinions down other people's throats by acting showy, insufferable, and morally superior way
Proboscis	A long, flexible nose, such as the trunk of an elephant or the long-nosed monkey. The word proboscis can also refer to a human nose that is rather large and even imposing.
Prosody	The study of the structure and style of poetry. Prosody can also refer to the rhythmic aspects of prose.
Proxy	A proxy acts as an agent or substitute for someone else, having been given the authority to do so
Pundit	An authority or learned person in a particular subject area, or can also be a critical or authors commentator
Quisling	A traitor, in this case someone who collaborates with an invading force and later serves as a leader in a puppet government established by the occupying enemy
Raffish	A raffish individual disregards the conventions of society in general, particularly in the way he showily dresses and in the way he carelessly acts
Raillery	Good-natured, playful, and friendly teasing and joking around, or poking fun or ridiculing someone or something that is not meant to be taken seriously
Razzmatazz	A spectacle that is meant to be highly impressive, lively, and exciting, such as flashy but shallow theater performances or a huge New Year's celebration
Reliquary	A receptacle or container to both show and keep sacred relics safe
Rhapsodic	If you are rhapsodic about something you are very happy, ecstatic, passionate, or highly enthusiastic about it
Rictus	A gaping mouth, usually fixed in a grimace because you are horrified or alarmed by something
Rigmarole	The word rigmarole refers to a long and foolish procedure that is usually ridiculously and needlessly complicated. Rigmarole can also refer to a long and confusing explanation of something that tends to be rather silly and meaningless
Riparian	This word means of or relating to the bank of a river or other natural waterway
Risible	That which is risible is laughable or capable of causing laughter because it is funny in some way, or even ridiculous
Sallow	Skin that is sallow is unhealthily yellow in hue
Sangfroid	Someone who exhibits sangfroid remains completely calm and composed in the face of great difficulty
Sashay	When someone is sashaying she is walking casually and calmly, and usually making a statement by moving in such a way so as to attract attention
Schadenfreude	The feeling of pleasure or happiness one gets when contemplating the misfortune that happens to another person
Scintilla	A scintilla of something is a small bit or trace of it. A scintilla can also be a spark or flash of light.
Semiotics	The study of signs and symbols, and what they communicate to the people who see them. Semiotics often refers to the study of linguistic signs and symbols.
Septum	A dividing wall or structure in an organism, such as the partition in the nose that creates two nostrils instead of just one nasal cavity
Sessile	A sessile organism is attached permanently to something and is hence immobile, such as a barnacle or a tree
Shibboleth	A unique word or belief of a particular group of people that both identifies those people as being a member of that group and which outsiders usually don't understand; the unique word os often used a password for identification
Sidereal	This word pertains to the stars or constellations, especially in relation to their motion in the heavens to indicate time
Sisyphean	A Sisyphean task is not only endless, but is also hopeless and pointless
Skullduggery	The use of deceptive practices to trick or deceive people
Sodden	
Solarium	A room that is primarily made of glass in order to let through sunlight
Solipsism	The view that only the self exists and nothing else, which can lead to extreme self-absorption and preoccupation with one's own feelings, needs, and desires
Sophist	A sophist uses clever arguing and reasoning techniques to not make sound arguments, but rather to trick others into thinking they are sound or reasonable. A sophist can also be a learned person, scholar, or philosopher.
Splenetic	If someone is splenetic she is highly irritable, spiteful, or probe to being in a bad mood
Spoonerism	A usually accidental and often humorous mixing around of the first sounds of two words or more, such as "plaster man" for "master plan"
Stochastic	A stochastic process is one where elements are generated via probability, or are randomly determined. Stochastic procedures also involve guesswork or conjecture.
Supererogatory	Supererogatory effort is above and beyond that which is expected or asked for. Supererogatory can also mean superfluous or unnecessary.
Supernumerary	A supernumerary amount of something is an extra or additional amount of it
Suzerain	A feudal lord, or one nation that controls the international affairs of another nation, but not its domestic affairs
Syllogism	a form of deductive reasoning that uses two premises to arrive at a logical conclusion
Termagant	A woman who tends to be quarrelsome, turbulent, scolding and violent. 
Note: this is an outdated term
Troika	A group of three people, nations, or institutions that work together to accomplish something. A troika is also a Russian carriage that is drawn by three horses abreast.
Tropism	The movement, growth, or bending of a plant or other anchored organism towards an external stimulus, such as light, gravity, or heat
Truckle	When you truckle to someone you are servile or submissive to him usually to gain some sort of advantage or reward
Tumescent	That which is tumescent, such as bodily tissue, is swelling or becoming swollen
Ululation	A howling or wailing sound, either of joy or grief
Usury	The practice of lending money at an exorbitant rate of interest
Uxorious	If a man is uxorious he is excessively and irrationally devoted and submissive to his wife
Vertiginous	A vertiginous agent, such as a very high cliff, causes dizziness or a whirling about in the head
Virago	An ill-tempered and combative woman who tends to be quarrelsome. A virago can also be considered a courageous and strong woman. 
Note: this is an outdated term.
Vitreous	That which is vitreous is either glass or has similar characteristics or properties of glass
Weal	
Wont	If you are wont to do something, it is what you are accustomed to do, or used to doing
Wunderkind	An extremely gifted young person whose abilities are wondrous and extraordinary. A wunderkind also describes a person of remarkable talent who is very successful at an unusually young age
Yeoman	A loyal, diligent, and dependable person who puts forth a great deal of effort to complete a task, often times for others who are counting on him
